---
title: "Ingress"
layout: post
tags:
  - ingress
category: gaming
subtitle: "I'm playing Ingress a bit to get off my chair and walk around."
---

I’ve been playing Ingress for a few months now. A common reason among many is
the desire to use the motivation of augmented reality to get off the couch,
which I share; otherwise, I am usually a homebody. For those who do not know,
Ingress is made by Niantic, the same company that makes Pokemon Go, which uses
many contributions users made through Ingress for its purposes. Ingress is
slightly more complicated in gameplay, and like Pokemon, there is no particular
way to win; there is only the leveling up (and these games provide different
mechanisms of doing so). Ingress gameplay requires that you create links between
portals (which cannot be crossed by either friendly or unfriendly links), and
making a triangle from three portals will create a field. To link these portals,
you must hack the portal to obtain keys (glyph hacking can increase your chance
of obtaining a key). Creating a field in turn captures the mental units of the
area of its enclosure, which contributes to the score and within the field, the
opposing team is prevented from linking or fielding. A lot of gameplay also
takes place outside of the game, through Google Hangouts and mailing list to
coordinate with people on the same team to achieve certain objectives. Other
gameplay also occurs when trying to stay in control of your “couch portals.”

Pete recruited me to the game.
