---
layout: post
title: "8:30 to 5"
date: 2012-09-08 19:05
comments: true
categories: 
---
I used to have a 8:30 -- 17:00 job, but I quit after 101th day, nine months
later. If you calculate it, you will know that I worked 12
days a month or less. It was also an $11/hour job, and I needed to commute 50+
miles round trip.

It took me a long time to leave, and I had to have a combination of factors
convincing me, which I will first list then explain: 

1. Gasoline.
2. Nothing new to learn.
3. Learning Ruby programming during my off days.
4. Finding a job posting from a deaf-owned company looking for a 
   Ruby developer.
5. Being more confident about my future job prospect.

I drove 250 miles a week three weeks a month (including going to Berkeley
for aikido practice) and earned per week not much more than $352 and as low as $230.

How can I be willing to spend $45 a week for gas out of so small an income.
I worked there so long because it was my first job and I was happy 
to even be able to find work. I still feel deeply appreciative to them for
being willing to hire me even though I was probably the farthest temp commuter
to have accepted the job offer.

Still, despite working there, I always had the sense that I wouldn't stay there
for long. The first reason was that the job didn't require my level of education.
I also always did the same thing every day: open boxes
in the morning, sort specimens, sometimes do data entry, and otherwise
do filtering the rest of the day (consisting of pouring urine aliquot, taking
out fibrin and putting a filter in, and centrifugation). 
I learned some data entry for a limited set of requisitions, but they didn't
teach me any more.

For three months, I focused on doing my job, thinking that it would be too early
to consider applying to other jobs. The first month was hard, and
I was glad to have a break, in which I recovered. It got easier later,
when I then could use my break weeks to learn more programming. I didn't think
of anything else I could do, except retail, writing and social work.

It is a mark of my limited range when I say that I literally could not think 
of what kind of job I wanted, only that I studied for either working in the 
laboratories and was studying what I was interested in.

Months before working at Spectra, I started the [Learn Ruby the Hard Way][1].
I also read through Why the Lucky Stiff, and I was trying to challenge myself,
almost deciding on a career change since I was likely not going to succeed.
Will Johansson's saying that he only knew ```10.times { print "Hello World!" }```
convinced me to learn because I kind of wanted a language unused by him.
During the weeks I had no work, I focused on trying to learn the programming 
language, even though I had my doubt because I wasn't the nerd or geek
who started writing scripts at the age of 12. Don't I have to be "that guy"
in order to be a real programmer?

[1]: http://ruby.learncodethehardway.com

<!-- more -->

That high standard was sometimes the obstacle, sometimes the motivation.

I took Statistics followed by Computational Intelligence 
at UC Santa Cruz Silicon Valley Extension, in the hope that both would
give me a solid background for bioinformatics, which was a field I was interested
in even though all the job postings seemed to want a PhD. I didn't really
see much hope for me, but stayed patient.

One day, I decided to look on Craigslist for any listing mentioning "deaf."
Usually I see only a few listing involving working with deaf people. That day,
there was a posting for "Ruby Developer." Piqued, I took a look.

They were looking for 
someone who could program using Backbone.js, EventMachine, etc. They used the word
"mandatory", which made me feel like I wasn't qualified for it.
Thinking retrospectively, I realized
that the posting was simply trying to be clear about its
requirements. No sense in using buzzwords like Web 2.0 and Big Data
when you are looking for a specific job to get done. Moreover, they were 
also open to internships, so clearly plenty of little tasks even if I couldn't
do the EventMachine or Backbone thing.

I didn't want to apply at first, but I was indeed very curious what it might be,
whether there was ambiguity in them saying that I would be working with a 
deaf-owned company. I saw two possible meanings: That it was a hearing company
that had contract work with a deaf company; that it was a company owned by
deaf people.

Nate encouraged me to apply. I decided to go for it, following his advice
of being upfront about my lack of experience, 
giving a short life story (growing up deaf
in an oralist environment, learning ASL, being able to communicate).
Cognizant of how some well-known developers have complained about 
Computer Science Departments all across the country graduating people
who absolutely didn't know how to code, who couldn't answer an interview
question regarding how to write a certain function (like FizzBuzz), I wrote
saying that I could write FizzBuzz in several
different ways.

They replied saying they wanted to interview me. The interview was quite
interesting, all conducted in sign language. Unlike other interviews, where
I have an interpreter and usually talk, this was an interview in which I 
completely sign. The questions two of three people in the room 
asked came across as being easy 
on me, while the third person asked challenging questions like whether
I knew WEBRick, and how to implement a chat server. I was heartened 
when one of the others said that even he couldn't think of how to answer
that question, so I somewhat understood it to be a joke.

I still think back on it with a kind of relief and joy.

Then they said they would contact me later. That was a brief period of
uncertainty where I emailed them and they didn't reply (I'm insecure like that)
but it turned out to be just someone feeling ill and another going out of town.

I wrote the code they needed. Then a month later, despite not knowing
whether I would be able to stay in the compnay, I sent an email to say that I
quit. People congratulated me at Spectra, which probably means that they
expected me to leave, just like they expect every other temp to leave.

I'm happy.

I haven't gotten any money yet, but I'm happy. I want to say it changed my life,
but that wouldn't be totally accurate because the change was limited to quitting
my job. Once I get an income, I'd be rather glad.